We're gonna start today
looking at signals.
Beginning of this is gonna be a little bit
cold lecture heavy just so that we get
some concepts out but we will get some
code examples and see what's going on.
Yeah, let's take a look
at what a signal is.
This is our basic primitive.
In Solid, we call them signals but
in other frameworks they
are known as observable, or,
ref, or atom, or behavior.
And it basically is a getter and
setter that holds a value.
This is not a magical example here.
Essentially it's almost too simple
where in Solid, we return a tuple.
But essentially there's a count and
there's a setCount variable that
comes out of our createSignal call.
And the count variable when
we call it as a function,
it just returns the value and then we
call the setter with the next value.
Then you can just read it.
This on its own is not too crazy, but
this is kind of a good way to
familiarize yourself with the syntax.
And in fact,
if you look at other frameworks,
they have different syntax here but
kind of similar.
Something like Vue,
where they use the refs,
they access the value by
calling count.value, or
they set a value by also using
count.value with the setter.
But what this is really doing is just
calling functions in the background
like if I was to try and implement Vue's
ref in Solid, all I would be doing is
using a getter and a setter to basically
return a function and set a function.
I just want to point out that the key to
this mechanism is actually that there's
functions behind under the hood that
are actually intercepting the get,
the reads, and the writes, all right.
And even I can take this further when
I look at something like Svelte,
because I mentioned before that they were
using a compiler and it's kind of similar.
They might use an assignment call here and
they might just read a variable as normal.
But behind the scenes, their compiler
is actually turning their set calls or
turning your assignments
into $$invalidate set calls.
So there's actually under the hood
very similar kind of concept
here in terms of how the mechanics work.
Because signals on themselves
don't do that much,
I'm gonna introduce this
the next primitive.
I'm gonna skip over computed
values because they
probably the most complicated of the bunch
and just get right to the side effects
because signals on their own would
not do anything of interest.
Side effect, also known as reactions,
or autoruns, or watches, or
in some frameworks, even computeds,
are basically why we do all this.
It's funny, we always use console log
in these beginner examples, but really,
it could be anything in there.
Essentially the trick to
these effects is that they
run once executing all the logic inside.
And then at any point in the future,
when you update the value of
something that was read under that effect,
the function runs again.
So essentially, a simple example like
this where we create a signal that is has
a value of 0, we run this effect and it
just console log 0 as you kind of expect.
But then when you set it to 5 later,
then it immediately logs 5, or
you set it to 10, it immediately logs 10.
This is the a equals b plus c
that I was talking about earlier.
Essentially, it ensures
that it's always in sync,
always up to date no matter what changes.
And it does this,
as I've kind of already alluded to,
from this concept of
dependency tracking and
automatic dependency tracking actually,
and this as I mentioned is
based on using functions.
That way, we can intercept all
the accesses so we know what happens.
These functions can be out in the open,
they can be getters, they can be proxies,
it can be under a compiler, but
it's the same kind of mechanism.
I've created a very simple playground, and
I just wanted to kinda emphasize this.
This example is the exact one we did but
it doesn't really,
I put some extra console logs just
to kind of see the timing but
it is actually immediate, right?
When we create our signal and
then we run the effect the first time
it does, immediately do the count.
We set the count, immediately sets it.
It doesn't matter what we set this to,
we can do this as many
times as we want and
kind of magically or
not magically get our update.
And in fact, we could probably, we can
listen to as many of these as we want.
I'm gonna make a count and
a count2 here just to get that in.
Maybe we'll start count to 5,
and now if we log both of
these in the console log.
And let's change some of
these around a little bit,
let's set count2 to10 or whatever.
This actually set count2 to 10.
Then you can kind of see
our function reruns,
count goes from 0 to 5.
And then the first count stays at 5
when we set the second count to 10.
Essentially we can have as many of these
signals being listened
to by these effects.
And this is kind of the core
mechanic behind reactivity.
You can define as much variable state as
you want, create as many effects as you
want and just have a system
that kind of stays in sync.